---
title: "FRB 20250316A: A Brilliant and Nearby One-off Fast Radio Burst Localized to 13 pc Precision"
collection: publications
category: journal
permalink: /talks/2025-08-01-2025ApJ___989L__48C_
excerpt: ''
date: 2025-08-01
venue: 'The Astrophysical Journal'
link: 'https://doi.org/10.3847/2041-8213/adf62f'
tags: ['co-author']
---

CHIME/FRB Collaboration, Thomas C. Abbott, Daniel Amouyal, Bridget C. Andersen, Shion E. Andrew, Kevin Bandura, Mohit Bhardwaj, Kalyani Bhopi, Yash Bhusare, Charanjot Brar, Alice Cai, Tomas Cassanelli, Shami Chatterjee, Jean-François Cliche, Amanda M. Cook, Alice P. Curtin, Evan Davies-Velie, Matt Dobbs, Fengqiu Adam Dong, Yuxin Dong, Gwendolyn Eadie, Tarraneh Eftekhari, Wen-Fai Fong, Emmanuel Fonseca, B. M. Gaensler, Nina Gusinskaia, Jason W. T. Hessels, Danté M. Hewitt, Jeff Huang, Naman Jain, Ronniy. C. Joseph, Lordrick Kahinga, Victoria M. Kaspi, Afrasiyab (Afrokk) Khan, Bikash Kharel, **Adam E. Lanman**, Magnus L'Argent, Mattias Lazda, Calvin Leung, Robert Main, Lluis Mas-Ribas, Kiyoshi W. Masui, Kyle McGregor, Ryan McKinven, Juan Mena-Parra, Daniele Michilli, Nicole Mulyk, Mason Ng, Kenzie Nimmo, Ayush Pandhi, Swarali Shivraj Patil, Aaron B. Pearlman, Ue-Li Pen, Ziggy Pleunis, J. Xavier Prochaska, Masoud Rafiei-Ravandi, Scott M. Ransom, Gurman Sachdeva, Mawson W. Sammons, Ketan R. Sand, Paul Scholz, Vishwangi Shah, Kaitlyn Shin, Seth R. Siegel, Sunil Simha, Kendrick Smith, Ingrid Stairs, David C. Stenning, Haochen Wang, Thomas Boles, Ismaël Cognard, Tammo Jan Dijkema, Alexei V. Filippenko, Marcin P. Gawroński, Wolfgang Herrmann, Charles D. Kilpatrick, Franz Kirsten, Shawn Knabel, Omar S. Ould-Boukattine, Hadrien Paugnat, Weronika Puchalska, William Sheu, Aswin Suresh, Aaron Tohuvavohu, Tommaso Treu, Weikang Zheng

**Abstract**

Precise localizations of a small number of repeating fast radio bursts (FRBs) using very long baseline interferometry (VLBI) have enabled multiwavelength follow-up observations revealing diverse local environments. However, the 2%–3% of FRB sources that are observed to repeat may not be representative of the full population. Here we use the VLBI capabilities of the full CHIME Outrigger array for the first time to localize a nearby (40 Mpc), bright (kJy), and apparently one-off FRB source, FRB 20250316A, to its environment on 13 pc scales. We use optical and radio observations to place deep constraints on associated transient emission and the properties of its local environment. We place a 5σ upper limit of L<SUB>9.9 GHz</SUB> &lt; 2.1 × 10<SUP>25</SUP> erg s<SUP>‑1</SUP> Hz<SUP>‑1</SUP> on spatially coincident radio emission, a factor of 100 lower than any known compact persistent radio source associated with an FRB. Our Keck Cosmic Webb Imager observations allow us to characterize the gas density, metallicity, nature of gas ionization, dust extinction, and star formation rate through emission line fluxes. We leverage the exceptional brightness and proximity of this source to place deep constraints on the repetition of FRB 20250316A and find that it is inconsistent with all well-studied repeaters given the nondetection of bursts at lower spectral energies. We explore the implications of a measured offset of 190 ± 20 pc from the center of the nearest star formation region in the context of progenitor channels. FRB 20250316A marks the beginning of an era of routine localizations for one-off FRBs on tens of milliarcseconds scales, enabling large-scale studies of their local environments.
