---
title: "Constraining Baryon Fractions in Galaxy Groups and Clusters with the First CHIME/FRB Outrigger"
collection: publications
category: preprint
permalink: /talks/2025-09-01-2025arXiv250907097L_
excerpt: ''
date: 2025-09-01
venue: 'arXiv e-prints'
link: 'https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2509.07097'
tags: ['lead-author']
---

**Adam E. Lanman**, Sunil Simha, Kiyoshi W. Masui, J. Xavier Prochaska, Rachel Darlinger, Fengqiu Adam Dong, B. M. Gaensler, Ronniy C. Joseph, Jane Kaczmarek, Lordrick Kahinga, Afrokk Khan, Calvin Leung, Lluis Mas-Ribas, Swarali Shivraj Patil, Aaron B. Pearlman, Mawson Sammons, Kaitlyn Shin, Kendrick Smith, Haochen Wang

**Abstract**

Fast radio bursts (FRBs) provide a sensitive probe of diffuse baryons: their dispersion measures (DMs) measure electron density independent of temperature and scale linearly with gas density. This makes them particularly well suited to studying the intragroup medium (IGrM), where traditional probes such as X-ray emission and the SZ effect are weak. Evidence suggests that the baryon content of group mass halos ($M_{500}\sim10^{13}-10^{14}$ M$_{\odot}$) is strongly affected by galactic feedback, creating deviations from cluster scaling relations. Three FRBs from the first CHIME/FRB Outrigger sample come from host galaxies found within or behind galaxy clusters and groups. Using integrated halo density models, we estimate the DM contribution of each ICM/IGrM, accounting for uncertainties in halo mass and the distance to the host galaxy relative to the cluster center. For the more massive halos, predicted cluster DMs agree with the extragalactic DM budget. One burst, FRB 20230703A, intersects three groups yet has a low extragalactic DM. By comparing model predictions with the measured DM, we constrain the baryon fraction $f_g(R)$ in these halos. Comparing with published $M-f_g$ relations, we find consistency with recent eROSITA results at $R_{500}$, mild tension at $R_{200}$, and strong tensions with earlier X-ray-based relations. As CHIME/FRB Outriggers build a large catalog of localized FRBs, many additional sightlines through groups and clusters will be obtained. These will enable systematic tests of intragroup and intracluster gas properties and sharpen constraints on the distribution of baryons in massive halos.
