---
title: "Probing Galaxy Groups and Clusters with the First CHIME/FRB Outrigger"
collection: talks
type: "seminar"
permalink: /talks/2025-04-25-ciera
venue: "Northwestern University CIERA"
date: 2025-04-25
location: "Evanstown, IL"
---

Abstract
========

As the largest collapsed structures in the universe, galaxy clusters and groups are essential to our understanding of large scale structure formation and galaxy evolution. The majority of the baryonic matter in these systems lies in a centralized intracluster or intragroup medium (ICM or IGrM). While the ICM is very well-characterized through X-ray emission and the SZ effect, these probes are significantly weaker for lower-mass groups, making the IGrM much harder to study. Existing evidence suggests that the properties of the IGrM deviate from the scaling relations observed for large clusters, likely due to groups' increased sensitivity to feedback effects. The frequency dispersion of Fast Radio Burst (FRB) spectra can be used as a sensitive probe of IGrM gas density, as it is independent of temperature and scales linearly with gas density. In this talk, I will report on the discovery of three FRB host galaxies by the CHIME/FRB Outrigger program (Leung et al., 2025) that have been found to either lie in or behind galaxy groups and clusters. For the lowest-mass foreground halo in the sample, there is a mild tension between the observed DM and the expectations of several ICM models, which may suggest a lower free-baryon fraction. I will also discuss the potential for the full CHIME/FRB Outrigger array for measuring the fraction of baryonic matter in low-mass galaxy groups.
